# Translate NGSI-v2 to NGSI-LD
This test validates user story **Publish IoW data using time-based fragmentation** (VSDSPUB-260) and more specific its task **Create NiFi processor translating NGSI-v2 to NGSI-LD** (VSDSPUB-262).

The NiFi processor implements the following algorithm (taken from [here](https://fiware-datamodels.readthedocs.io/en/stable/ngsi-ld_howto/index.html#steps-to-migrate-to-json-ld)):
* NGSI v2 entity `id` attributes have to be converted to URIs, preferably using the NGSI-LD URN
* Regular entity attributes have to be converted to JSON-LD nodes of type `Property`.
* `ref` attributes (pointing to other entities) have to be converted to JSON-LD nodes of type `Relationship`.
* The `timestamp` metadata item has to be mapped to the observedAt member of a `Property` node.
* The `unitCode` metadata item has to be mapped to the `unitCode` member of a Property node.
* The NGSI v2 `DateTime` type has to be properly encoded as per the JSON-LD rules.
* The NGSI v2 `geo:json` type has to be renamed to `GeoProperty`.

## Test Setup
For this test we can use the [Workflow](../../../support/context/workflow/README.md) context. Please copy the [environment file (translate.env)](./translate.env) to a personal file (e.g. `user.env`) and fill in the mandatory arguments.

Yyou can change the location of generated files containing the NGSI-LD output.

> **Note**: make sure to verify the settings in your personal `user.env` file to contain the correct file paths, relative to your system or the container where appropriate, etc. Also ensure that the file paths actually exist, if not, create then.

> **Note**: you can set the `COMPOSE_FILE` environment property to the [docker compose file](../../../support/context/workflow/docker-compose.yml) so you do not need to provide it in each docker compose command. E.g.:
```bash
export COMPOSE_FILE="../../../support/context/workflow/docker-compose.yml"
```

> **Note**: because of the way Docker and Docker Compose work, it is best to pass the volume mapped location by creating an environment variable, e.g.:
```bash
export NIFI_DATA_FOLDER=$(pwd)/data/output
```

Then you can run the systems by executing the following command:
```bash
docker compose --env-file user.env up
```

## Test Execution
To run the test, you need to:
1. Upload a pre-defined NiFi workflow
2. Start the NiFi workflow
3. Upload a NGSI-v2 file
4. Generate expected NGSI-LD file

### 1. Upload NiFi Workflow
Log on to the [Apache NiFi user interface](https://localhost:8443/nifi) using the user credentials provided in the `user.env` file.

Once logged in, create a new process group based on the [translate workflow](./nifi-workflow.json) as specified in [here](../../../support/context/workflow/README.md#creating-a-workflow).

The workflow contains a standard HTTP listener (ListenHTTP), the NGSI-v2 to NGSI-LD translator and a standard processor to capture the NGSI-LD content (PutFile).

### 2. Start the Workflow
Start the workflow as described [here](../../../support/context/workflow/README.md#starting-a-workflow).

Verify that the HTTP listener is working: http://localhost:9010/ngsi/healthcheck should say `OK`.

### 3. Upload a NGSI-v2 File
Upload the given (or your own) NGSI-v2 test file to the ListenHTTP processor:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:9010/ngsi -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '@data/input/WaterQualityObserved.json' 
```

### 4. Generate Expected NGSI-LD File
To verify the actual output you can use Fiware's NGSI-v2 to NGSI-LD [python script](https://github.com/FIWARE/data-models/blob/master/tools/normalized2LD.py) to generate the expected output from your input file.

The script relies on a package (`entity_print`) that cannot be found anymore so we have adapted the script to use a standard method for printing an entity to json (`json.dumps`). You can find the adapted script [here](./normalized2LD.py).

Please make sure you have installed [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and the Python package manager ([pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/)). E.g.:

* verify your python installation: `py --version`
* verify your pip installation: `pip --version`
* if needed, install and upgrade pip: `py -m pip install --upgrade pip`

Install the script dependencies:
```bash
pip install rfc3987
```

Checking the script without providing arguments (i.e. `py ./normalized2LD.py`) results in:
```text
Usage: normalized2LD [input file] [output file] [target ld_context]
```
Convert the NGSI-v2 to NGSI-LD using the script. E.g. (using a dummy test context as the python script requires one):
```bash
py ./normalized2LD.py ./data/input/WaterQualityObserved.json ./data/expected/WaterQualityObserved.json https://json-ld.org/test-suite/context.jsonld
```

## Test Verification
Now, you can verify that the generated NGSI-LD by the NiFi processor matches the one generated by the python script. 

> **Note**: that because a JSON file can be formatted in various ways, a simple text comparison might not provide the desired results. A possible approach is an online JSON compare tool such as https://www.jsondiff.com/. Alternatively, convert both JSON files to N-quad files, sort the content of the files and compare these results.

> **Note**: also that the python script adds the dummy test context to the generated result, while the NiFi processor does not require a data-specific additional context. Alternatively, configure the NiFi processor to use the same dummy test context.

## Test Teardown
First stop the workflow as described [here](../../../support/context/workflow/README.md#stopping-a-workflow) and then stop all systems as described [here](../../../support/context/gtfs2ldes-workflow-server-mongo/README.md#stop-the-systems), i.e.:
```bash
docker compose --env-file user.env down
```
